xxiv manonuomou.

arising apparently from over-haste in translating the original, see ¹

notes on fmaum Proserpinae 5 83, od Peloponnesum. ih, Epidauri ib.,
moesos argenteos ξ 84, ae Delio quidem Apollini §88- As to the

manner in which these objections were met by the Stoice see my .

notes on each passage. In some instances they may be directly
answercd irom the speech of Balbus, eg„ the assumption that virtus

isallowsd by all to be independent oi Divino grace, is contradicted χ

in 11 79 ; the assertion that, according to the Stoice, Providence does
not extend to individuale, is contradicted in 11 165. In both these
cases itis probable that the elder Stoice held the doctrines impugned,
but this want of corresponddnce between the exposition and the
criticism spoils the verisimilitudo of the dialogus}

As to Oicero’s own feeling with regard to the questions at issue, ¹

we find him dissenting from the Academic view in regard to the
missortnnes ol the good and the prosperity of the bad, in the passages
cited in my notes on ἕ 80 Reguli, 5 84 permeat, on conscience es the
voice of God ἕ 85 sine allo diuino ratiovw3 on virtue as the gift oi
God ἓ 87 quis quod bonus uir creet. But none except the extremest

ponticone could pretend thet the Academic difficulties were entirely ’

cleared up by such consideratione as were available on the other side.
Thon, as now, the Divino government was a matter oi saith, not of
certainty. Now, as then, in spite of the added light of Christianity‚
we must confess thet, logically speaking, the religione view of the

order of the world is only the more probable; thet Cicero in fect is ζ
· right, as against the Stoice, when he refuses tc say more than that the

argument of Balbus appeared to him to bc od veritatis similitudinem
propensior.

Lastly, provokingly inconsistent ss is the Academic view which
at one time professes tc be gnided by reason alone, irrespective os

authority (ι 10), end at other times, in the person of Cotta, accepts ,

without inquiry whatever has come down to us on the authority of
ouranccstors(111 5, 9); which sneers at the sacred legende and the
practice oi divination, and dces its best to show that the very idea oi

God is selieontradictory and impossible, and yet insiste on retaining ,

all the externals of religion as a duty obligatory on every Roman

citizen, still the Academic pontiff is a person of genuine historical i

interest. He is the Trajan who, allowing thet there is no herm in
Christianity and that Ohristians are not to be hunted out, yet ordains

that if a man is accused of Christianity before a magistrats and*-l
refuses to abjuro his luith, he is to be put to death. In later times

 

